What this tells us. We had this,
obviously, expectations, but now it's
finally happened and then what do we
understand? Yeah, it definitely shows
Vanke is under severe liquidity strains
now, and I think the plan we are seeing
about the one-year delay is actually
worse than a lot of, you know,
investors' expectation. And Vanke also
have another yuan notes in over 3
billion yuan,
you know, coming due in late December.
So, right now investors are expecting
that yuan note will probably see the
same treatment. And, you know, overall,
Vanke has, you know, more than 13
billion yuan note coming by due by the
end of next June. So, our investors are
wondering whether what happened will to
other yuan note, as well. Yeah.
Christie, you talked about your latest
reaction piece.
I mean, it's a one-year delay, and
you're saying the impact from this could
be even greater than what we saw with
Evergrande and Country Garden. Why?
Right. So, from a
housing sentiment standpoint, I think,
incrementally speaking, this is less big
of a shock than Evergrande and Country
Garden when it happened. But, the
significance here is that Vanke is a
state-backed developer. So, I think with
its fail- failure to pay its bond
payment, I think the significance here
is that investors will start to worry,
you know, how safe are state-backed
developers, including local
government-owned developers or
centrally-owned developers. How should
we perceive them? And I think that would
change the perception of home buyers.
Are they still confident in buying
pre-sale homes from state-owned
developers? So, so far in this year,
year-to-date, state-owned developers,
they their sales are down 9% versus
private developers that are down 29%.
So,
throughout a crisis, state-owned
developers, they relatively unscathed,
and the contagion has been contained in
the private developers space. But, I
think with what happened to Vanke, which
is, you know, which has a larger
shareholder from
Shenzhen Metro, which is a state-owned
entity, I think this is going to be a
tipping point for the market.
How does that then also play into to
what happens next if you have that fear
that starts to spread and that risk of
contagion? What are the next things that
you actually watch out for? Yeah, so
next week Vanke will hold a meetings
with bondholders to consider support for
the yuan note,
you know, a delay. So, we will
definitely watch closely about how much
support they can get. If they cannot get
enough support, it will be a default.
And also, you know, I think offshore
bondholders are also watching closely on
this because, you know, offshore, they
have, you know, over 1.3 billion dollar
notes. So, they are watching closely
about what's happening onshore and then
how this going to impact them, as well.
What are you What are our people telling
you about this right now? I mean, people
are saying they're liking this to what
Country Garden, to like Evergrande in
terms of eventual recoveries? What sort
of scenarios are they mapping out now? I
think right now the pricing already, you
know, pricing about the recovery rate,
right? And then, I think investors, as
definitely as Christie said, trying to
reprocess what's the government's stance
on this property crisis. And I think
right now it's actually Vanke maybe on
their own to deal with this debt issue
because previously always relied on its
largest shareholder, Shenzhen Metro, and
also the government support. But, right
now it's actually the moment people need
to think about how they're going to
repay those debt.
And then, amongst all of this, we've had
China telling stats providers to
withhold key data on home sales.
How does that also add to the level of
angst, do you think, and why exactly is
that happening? Right. So, it was a big
surprise yesterday because the two
private data providers have been
consistently releasing this data end of
every month. And now that it seems to be
that there's more intervention from the
government to try and control the
narrative and shield homebuyer
confidence. And I think from here you
would possibly see more government
actions to try and mitigate the impact
on Vanke's
debt crisis on the overall home sales
market. But, as I said before, there's
limited ammunition in the policy
toolbox. Mortgage rate and down payment
ratios are already at record low. And
also, you are seeing home purchase
restrictions, they're already relaxed in
most of the cities except a few. So, I
think what we can do from here is more
limited. What What are your
models and the like telling you about
what November data is going to look
like? That.
Right. So, November data,
what we had predicted earlier is an over
30% decline year over year because last
year, uh same time last year, we had a
high base from aggressive stimulus
policy, if you remember. And the data
did come out, and we had access to that,
and the number came up to be a 36% year
over year decline. We expect We expect
December to continue to have that kind
of steep decline, which is important
because year-end sales push is very
important for developers to try and
catch up at the end of the year.